[Music]
you
good morning thank you all for being
here
from my right let me introduce who I
have with me and then acknowledge some
special friends my right is Gareth
Rhodes who has been he works with the
Department of Financial Services but
he's been working with us in Albany
during this coronavirus pandemic to my
left Melissa de Rosa was secretary to
the governor to her left
Robert Mejia who is the state budget
director he doesn't smile much in
nowadays because the state budget is not
in great shape but when the federal
government does the right thing and
gives us funding we expect that he's
gonna smile that big smile again it's a
pleasure to be in Rochester with so many
of my friends who have done such great
work for the state former lieutenant
governor Bob Duffy who worked with me
when we first got started and has done
great work for the entire state of New
York Danny Wegman pleasure to be with
you wedgies is a great New York
corporation and then he's a great civic
leader and they've been very helpful
through this situation also thank you
for allowing us to do the antibody
testing at Wegmans that's been very very
helpful and we thank you for everything
you've done
and Nicole Wegman thank you pleasure
thank you for being on our New York
forward advisory board to help us going
forward and find our way through this
let's give you an update on where we are
today the total number of
hospitalizations is down you see that
curve coming down you see that mountain
that we went up now we're on the other
side of the mountain you start to see
the shape of the mountain
unfortunately the decline from the
mountain is not as steep as the incline
right and the big question for us in New
York and and every state of course the
nation has been
how fast and how low does that decline
go right how fast does the decline
actually happen and what is the lowest
level that the decline will reach
unfortunately you see that we were
shaped we were hoping for a quick up
plateau at the top which is what they
talked about but a fast decline you see
the decline is again not as steep as the
incline but it is a decline and that's
good news the net change in total
hospitalizations is is down and that
change in intubations is down and that's
always good news when a person is it
intubated roughly 80% of the times there
is not a good outcome so the fact that
the intubations is down is a good is
good news and then the other end is how
many new cases are coming in the door
every day how many new diagnoses in
kovat cases and that number is also
declining so not only are the number of
people in hospitals coming down but the
number of new cases coming in the door
is down and that's good news because it
had plateaued at about 900 statewide for
a few days but this number is is down at
700 and that's a good number I would
take this with a grain of salt as they
say because this is reporting from
yesterday which was a Sunday and
sometimes we get different results on
the weekend remember this whole
reporting system is just been put in
place this never happened before this is
now every hospital in the state
reporting every day for the first time
so it's a plus or minus across the board
this is the number that haunts me every
day and this number is not declining
anywhere nearly as
fast as we would like to see it decline
still 226 New Yorkers who passed away
and so we don't become immune we talk
about these numbers
it's 226 families right that's 226 wives
or brothers or sisters or children that
are now suffering the loss of a loved
one so that we remember them in our
thoughts and our prayers people are all
talking about reopening which we should
be talking about this is not a
sustainable situation close down
everything close down the economy lock
yourself in the home you can do it for a
short period of time but you can't do it
forever but reopening is more difficult
than the closed down the closed down was
relatively simple
right you go into the basement you throw
the big power switch and everything just
goes down close the businesses stay at
home it was a blunt operation and one
that was done all across the country
just stop everything now when you go to
restart the reopening now knowing what
we know it's more nuanced you have to be
more careful and again no one has done
this before no one has been here before
so first start by learning the lessons
that we did learn through this
experience and second let's be smart
about what we do and I get the emotion
and I get the impatience and I get the
anxiety we all feel it when I say the
situation was unsustainable its
unsustainable on many levels its
unsustainable economically its
unsustainable personally a lot of
anxiety is now all through our community
we see it in increased alcoholism
increased substance abuse increased
domestic violence so this is a very very
difficult period and people want to move
on yes but let's be smart about what we
do and let's learn
lessons one of the lessons is we have
never been here before
and we didn't really know what was going
on
CDC releases a report end of last week
that says the virus was actually coming
to the East Coast from Europe everybody
was looking at China for all those
months trying to China China China yeah
China was last November December the
virus migrated from China while we were
all staring at China and with the Europe
and the strain that came to the United
States came from Europe we had people in
the airports stopping people from China
testing people from China the federal
government did a lot of testing a lot of
screening people getting off planes from
China yeah but meanwhile the people from
Europe were walking right past them and
that's where the strain came from that
was infecting this area and that's what
the CDC just learned last week and this
is going back to February right on one
of the most study topics ever again just
learn the lessons of what happened you
now add that piece of information on the
Europe trips and then you see the number
of flights that came from Europe during
that time where they landed and now you
it explains why you've seen the outbreak
in Chicago that you've seen why you've
seen the number of cases in New York
because yes the flights were landing
here people were coming from Italy and
UK and from European countries and
nobody thought to screen them nobody was
on guard and you add that to the density
of New York especially in New York City
and that virus just took off okay we
didn't know we didn't know now we do we
also couldn't look back in history you
look at that 1918 flu pandemic that they
talked about the places that
opened too soon so that flu come right
back and by the way that flu was not one
wave that was three waves first wave
second wave third wave second wave was
worse than the first wave and you see
watch the other countries that went
through this before us right we're not
the first one down the chute there were
other countries that went down before us
you see they wanted to reopen also they
were feeling the pressure on reopening
and you study those cases and you see
that you've reopened too soon or you
reopen unintelligently and you can then
have an immediate backlash and that's
not speculation that is looking at other
countries and look at what what has
happened around the world and then you
talk to the experts who know listen to
what they're saying
dr. pouchy who i think is one of the
best voices and minds on this dr. Falchi
has been through this in in different
iterations he was one of the pioneers on
the HIV virus and AIDS and he says we
could be in for a bad fall and a bad
winter could be why cuz he doesn't know
he's not sure but could be for a bad
fall or bad winter okay so put all of
this in the in the equation and then
also acknowledge and actualize that the
truth is that nobody knows what happens
next and when it happens well how can
that be that nobody knows we're so
sophisticated we have so much
intelligence we have so many experts
this is the United States of America how
can it be that no one knows because no
one knows I speak to the best experts
globally globally and nobody can tell
you for sure now experts we look to
experts and we expect them to know
so we pushed them to no answer the
question tell me when what's going to
happen in September what's going to
happen in December sometimes the answer
is I don't know sometimes that's the
honest answer I was talking to my
daughter's last night and they said you
know you say at your briefings I don't
know how can you say that first I'm not
really sure they watch my briefings but
they're right sometimes I say I don't
know why because I don't know and if you
don't know say you don't know and I
speak again to the best minds in this
country the best minds around the globe
and they don't know so if you don't know
say you don't know it doesn't mean
you're not smart no reason to get
defensive I don't know when you know
what you don't know and admit it it will
actually keep you safe my daughters
don't quite agree with this yet but I
haven't given up on the concept know
what you don't know know when you don't
know what the future holds you can be
safe because then you can prepare for
different possibilities and that's where
we are we don't know but we will be
prepared for all possibilities so
reopening chart a course with the best
information you have learning from the
lessons you have but be able to correct
that course depending on what happens
which means don't act emotionally don't
act because I feel this I feel that
because someone said well other states
are opening so we'll you must be able to
open if other states are open if we get
the anecdotal forget the atmospherics
forget the environment don't forget the
emotional look at the data look at the
measurements look at the science follow
the facts and that's what we've done
here from day one this is no gut
instinct this is look at the data look
at their science look at the metrics
move forward
measuring what you can and what you know
and then be prepared to adjust well I
want specificity I want to know for sure
you don't but there's liberation in
knowing that so let's do this
intelligently based on metrics and we'll
see what happens and we'll adjust to
whatever happens well what does that
mean our metrics you can measure this
and we have to measure this you look at
that percentage and the rate of
hospitalizations which we have right
that's the chart that goes up and down
you watch that hospitalization rate do
your diagnostic testing so you know how
many people are testing positive and you
can watch that rate going up or down or
flat do the contract tracing so after
the testing you follow up and you do
that contact tracing and you are then
reducing the infection spread by
isolating the positives if you do those
things you will control the rate of
transmission of the virus which is
everything
nobody says you're going to eliminate
the virus in the short-term no body but
you can control the rate of transmission
and if you can control the rate of
transmission you can control the rate of
transmission from becoming an outbreak
or an epidemic or overwhelming your
public health system that is the best
you can do so control the rate of
transmission to what they call one point
one or less one point one is every
person infects one point one other
people more than one other person if
you're doing that that is an outbreak
that means it's going to increase
exponentially and it's going to be out
of control as long as your rate of
transmission is manageable and low then
reopen your businesses and reopen the
businesses in phases so you're
increasing that activity level while
you're watching the rate of transmission
rate of transmission goes up stop the
reopening close the valve close the
valve right away so reopen businesses do
it in phases and watch that rate of
transmission it gets over 1.1 stop
everything immediately that's where the
other countries wound up they started to
reopen they exceeded the 1.1 it became
an outbreak again they had to slow down
rather than starting and stopping you'd
rather have a controlled start so you
don't have to stop right and that's what
you learn from the other countries you
reopen too fast then you have to stop
and nobody wants to have gone through
all of this and then start just to stop
again well how does that happen first of
all it's not going to happen statewide
this state has different regions which
are in much different situations than
other regions in this state and rather
than wait for the whole state to be
ready reopen on a regional basis if
upstate has to wait for downstate to be
ready they're gonna be waiting a long
time so analyze the situation on a
regional basis ok and you look at a
region on four measures the number of
new infections your health care capacity
if the infections goes too high you
overwhelm your health system now your
Italy with people on Gurney's in the
hallway because your hospital system
can't handle it do your diagnostic
testing so you're seeing how the
infection is increasing or decreasing
and do the contact tracing have that
system in place so when you test then
you find the positive you trace the
contacts from that positive person and
you're isolating them to bring down the
rate and you
do that on a regional basis that system
has to be in place for a regional basis
how do you start when can I start
reopening we look at guidelines from the
CDC which say a region has to have at
least 14 days of decline in total
hospitalizations and death on a
three-day rolling average so you take a
3 day average you have to have 14 days
of decline you can't have more than 15
new total cases or 5 new deaths on a
three day rolling average this is
telling you that you're basically at a
plateau level that you can actually
start to reopen then you're watching the
rate of infection and the spread of the
infection and the benchmark there is
fewer than two new covered patients per
100,000 residents right it's based on
your population to account for the
variants in the different sizes of
regions across the state then anticipate
protect yourself from all possibilities
well what if we have a surge again never
fill your hospitals to more than 70%
capacity leave 30 percent in case you
have a surge remember this virus is
tricky the rate of infection per a
person who gets infected today shows up
in the hospital 10 days from today or
two weeks from today
so that infection rate goes up you don't
feel it for two weeks there's a lag to
it you want to make sure you have 30% of
the hospital beds available in case you
have that surge also learn the lessons
from before every hospital has to have
90 days of PPE
for that hospital at the rate that they
have been using it during covert we
cannot have another mad scramble where
nurses and doctors don't have downs and
masks etc because the hospitals don't
have the necessary stockpile so make
sure every hospital has the stockpile on
the testing we have done really
remarkable work on testing 1 million New
Yorkers have now been tested believe it
or not
and the CDC coronavirus task force for
the White House recommends that for a
region to reopen you have 30 tests for
every 1000 residents ready to go
so what testing capacity do we need for
a region to reopen you have to be
prepared to do 30 tests for every 1000
residents New York is doing more tests
than any country in the state by far New
York is doing more tests than any
country on the globe per capita so we're
way ahead and testing but it doesn't
matter what we're doing statewide to
open a region that region has to have a
testing capacity of 30 per 1000 the
National Guard has been doing a great
job for us in putting together testing
kits and distributing testing kits and
we want to thank them very much but we
have to have those tests and we have to
have what they call tracers contact
tracers in place and Mayor Bloomberg has
been very helpful former mayor of New
York City in putting together this
tracing system this has never existed
before on the scale a group of people
who literally trace contacts from a
person who's positive who did you have
dinner with last night who did you have
dinner with two nights ago who might you
have been in contact with
and then contacting those people to say
to you have any symptoms if you do you
should know you were with John Smith
John Smith tested positive he said he
went to dinner with you you should be on
alert that old tracing system has never
been done not only in this state but in
this country so this that all has to be
set up and it has to be done once that
is all done then you can talk about
reopening businesses well which
businesses do we open first you open
businesses first that are most essential
and pose the lowest risk okay most
essential and the lowest risk phase one
we're talking about construction
manufacturing and select retail with
curbside pickup they are the most
essential with the lowest risk second
phase professional services retail the
administrative support real estate third
phase restaurant food services
accommodation fourth arts entertainment
recreation education
remember density is not your friend here
large gatherings are not your friend
that's where the virus tends to spread
that's why those situations would be
down at the end and then we need
businesses to also reimagine how they're
going to do business and get ready to
protect their workforce to change their
physical environment to the extent they
need to and to change their processes to
make sure people can socially distance
people remain at a safe in a safe
environment and that's going to be up to
businesses to come up with ways to
reconfigure their workplace and their
processes to make this work
and that's business by business
government can say these are the
standards but
business is gonna have to figure out how
to do that when you look at this state
there are some regions that right now by
the numbers pose a lower risk some that
pose a higher risk we can tell you by
region right now of those criteria that
we went through which ones are in place
for which region so which ones have the
right hospitalization the right testing
regimen the right contract contact
tracing regimen and which ones still
have work to do in those areas and this
is going to be region by region and each
region has to put together the leaders
in those respective areas who put
together this system and monitor this
system literally on a daily basis so
they're getting all that import all
those specifics all that data and then
day by day they're making a decision as
to how to proceed with reopening based
on the data based on the facts and
that'll be a little different for every
region in the state may fifteenth is
when the statewide pause order PA USC
not PA WS the pause order the pause
order was stopped all businesses stay at
home that expires on May 15th May 15th
regions can start to reopen and do their
own analysis but these are the facts
that they have to have in place to do it
start now don't wait to May 15th
don't call me up on May 15th and say
well the pause order expired I want to
open because I'm gonna ask you the
questions I just asked I just presented
do you have a healthcare system in place
is your health system ready can your
hospitals handle it
do you have testing in place do you have
tracing in place have you talked to the
businesses about how they're going to
reopen so we have a couple of weeks but
the this is what local leaders this is
what a community has to deal with to
reopen safely and intelligently in my
opinion this can't just be we want to
get out of the house we're going No
let's be smart let's be intelligent
let's learn from the past let's do it
based on facts you know we are at a
different time in place government is
fundamentally in a different position
than it was just a couple of months ago
this is for real now right government
politics it's not about optics it's not
about celebrity it's not about press
releases it's not about what I put on
Instagram yesterday this is about
government leaders performance their
expertise this is a situation where
their competence and their ability can
be the difference between life and death
literally and what the governments have
done federal state local what we've done
in this state has literally saved lives
we reduced all the projected
hospitalization rates dramatically by
about a hundred thousand new yorkers
100,000 fewer new yorkers were
hospitalized than they predicted 100,000
think about that if we had 100,000 more
people in our hospital system first of
all our hospital system would have
collapsed
if the projections were true if we
didn't change those projections and we
literally saved lives how many of those
100,000 would have been hospitalized and
would have died so we've done great work
at a tremendous cost and tremendous
hardship but we've done great
we just have to remain vigilant and
smart and competent going forward and
that's what New York tough means New
York tough means we're tough but we're
smart with discipline we're unified and
we are loving and it's the love of
community and love of each other and
respect for each other which is what has
gotten us through this and will continue
to thank you very much for taking the
time to be here thank you for the social
distancing questions for myself or any
of my colleagues mask-wearing I said
look I believe this is the this is a
time for sort of honest straightforward
talk I said that I think it's
disrespectful of people not to wear
masks I mean think about it you see all
these commercials on TV we thank you to
our heroes thank you to the nurses thank
you to the doctors thank you to the
Transit workers thank you to the police
officers and we should be thankful right
they went to work so all of us could
stay safe and go home the look the least
gratitude you can show is at least wear
the mask so you don't infect more people
who place more of a burden on the
hospitals and the nurses and the doctors
who were all saying thank you for your
great service you really want to say
thank you then respect them and respect
their job and wear the mask so you don't
infect people well I don't want to wear
a mask it's not that big a deal and by
the way you don't wear a mask for
yourself you wear a mask to protect me I
wear a mask to protect you we owe each
other a certain amount of reasonableness
and respect in society and I owe you
that level of respect that if I'm sick I
should wear a mask
local governments have the ability to
enforce and to penalize that's up to
local governments but do I think local
government should be enforcing it and
should there be sanctions yes yes
because it is a public health emergency
you know this is not just do me a favor
this is a public health emergency and
it's a statewide order that I put in
place that I'm proud of and local
governments have the responsibility to
enforce it and part of their right
the illegal right is they can have a
penalty or a sanction that they impose
so Rochester can have one penalty you
know you can be appropriate to the to
the community New York cities in a
different situation but yeah I think
local government should enforce it and I
think there should be a penalty cuz you
could little literally kill someone you
could literally kill someone because you
didn't want to wear a mask
I mean how how cruel and irresponsible
would that be yes yes you don't have to
wear and no one said wear a mask all the
time right wear a mask if you may be in
a situation where you can't socially
distance you go for a walk in the woods
you don't have to be wearing a mask you
come to a point even for you from your
walk in the woods where you're going to
be in a parking lot or there's an
entrance and an exit and you may run
into other people wear the mask you can
have the mask down when you're walking
in the woods but now you see someone
coming the other way
I'm gonna pass by the other person you
put the mask on I mean it's it's the
least that we can do right everyone is
killing themselves people are working 24
hours a day show some respect
show some basic modicum of respect
yeah putting putting all of these new
systems in place is an incredible task
and you know Society now we have a
temptation to blame well who's to blame
who's the blame nobody is to blame that
we don't have testing capacity for
millions of Americans we've never done
this before
our testing system was basically for the
flu test or strep or some other blood
test when the doctor would send you to a
lab to get a blood test
we never had a testing system in this
nation that could do this volume so this
whole thing is the scramble and it was a
scramble between the federal government
in the States who's supposed to do it
who's responsible I had a good meeting
with the president a while back where we
sat down and we said look the states
controlled the labs we have about 300
labs in in New York State we regulate
them the state should be responsible for
what they can do and we need the federal
government to help where they can the
supply chain issue of reagents
manufacturing etc that is an
international supply chain ironically so
much of this stuff comes from China it's
like incredible on the testing the
reagents the chemicals as well as the
PPE when we were looking for masks and
gowns everything was in China but the
federal government has assumed the
responsibility of that international
supply chain the reagents etc the states
sort of take over at the state line but
that supply has increased and we are
distributing it and as you saw we're
doing more testing than any other state
or any other country per capita so we're
coming online very very quickly but we
still have more to do
yeah they're going to get guidance on
what the what plan they need to reopen
schools which is basically the analog to
what a business needs right I want to
reopen my manufacturing company okay how
do you do it and keep people six feet
apart how do you do it in the cafeteria
how do you do it in the transport
how do you run your business in a way
that's going to now meet these social
distancing guidelines same thing for a
school part of the issue for our school
was just the the gatherings in the
school you have 25 students in a class
how do you put 25 students in a class
and there's six feet apart I mean look
at this space right even these press
conferences you need for 20 people you
need you know a tremendous sized room
how how would you do that in the school
how do you socially distance students do
you need more classrooms which means
they need more teachers how do you serve
lunch what do you do about the bus how
do you keep fewer students on the bus so
those kinds of details have to be in the
reopening plan they'll get guidance on
that but it's going to be easier said
than done especially for a school
because think about it
the problem is the gathering a school is
a gathering that's what it is
yeah look I get the whole liber8
movement there's no reason for a closing
of anything just open everything up and
let everybody go do whatever they want
to do I get that argument I hear it I
understand it I'm sympathetic to it you
know everybody wants out I also know the
facts of what has happened to the places
have who have done that and what you
suggest that was all those countries
that saw saw a spike in the number of
cases right afterwards saw a spike in
the infection rate sort of spike in the
hospitalizations or spike in the number
of deaths and I would like to see as few
New Yorkers pass away as possible so yes
people want to get out on the other hand
we want to do it in a responsible way
and that's the whole question
no 80 and 90% of us don't get the
coronavirus nobody has gotten the
coronavirus before some people say well
this is like a flu yeah it's not like a
flu even eighty ninety percent of us
don't get the flu right but this is a
different beast
that we're dealing with and we learned
that the hard way you don't hear anyone
saying anymore this is like the flu
right that was back in January February
that was before we had 18,000 people in
our hospitals in New York this is not a
flu
let's take one more yes
yeah this is a national problem we have
unemployment systems states run the
unemployment system in this case we have
a lot of federal benefits that are
running through the unemployment system
the unemployment system was set up with
phone operators and a website to handle
like thousands of calls thousands of
input we now have millions of inputs it
is overwhelmed every state unemployment
website office etc I talked to all the
governor's on these conference calls
they're all struggling to deal with a
number of unemployment claims federal
government then just passed a piece of
legislation several weeks ago that had
additional benefits for people which
then required new signups and then it
brought more people to the websites etc
we have hired over 3,000 people to
actually run our unemployment service
our website and to handle the telephones
3,000 people which is just incredible
just for the unemployment line and we've
made great progress there is still for
some people a delay because you do have
to document and certify that the person
is eligible you just can't be just to
somebody close up and you Bob Duffy
calls and you say okay and you send them
a check federal law and common sense
requires that you affirm certain
information the good news is even if
there's a delay on the website it
doesn't cost you any money when you get
the check the check is from the date of
your eligibility even though the website
can be a pain in the neck to deal with
but I'll ask Melissa
DeRosa who has been overseeing this if
she has an update on the unemployment
site and this is actually very important
in Commissioner Reardon who's gonna do a
call later today to brief out on the
latest what we found in the last several
days is that a lot of the people who are
in pending stew
this have not gone on and certified
their unemployment status which is a
separate process from going through the
application so you file the application
you do the phonecall you process through
but then you have to go into the website
into your account and certify that
you're unemployed and that's something
you have to do every week by Saturday so
you can either do it on your website
account or you can call there's two
separate numbers for unemployment
insurance it's eight eight eight five
eight one five eight one two and four
pandemic unemployment insurance it's
eight three three three two four OH
three six six and you have to do that
every single week and certify that you
are still unemployed and eligible to
work and then they process that
information so we sent out 90,000 emails
over the weekend to a batch of people we
identified that we're stuck in that
pending status because of that and as I
said Commissioner Reardon is gonna be
doing a more detailed call this
afternoon to continue to get this
information out to the public but that
is the number one thing that I would
recommend to those people who are still
sitting in pending status yes priority
status and just to punctuate one other
thing the governor said about the flu
the one big difference between corona
virus and the flu is that the flu has a
vaccine so for those people who are
still making that comparison I'd like
you to consider that
but you don't know what on the flu
vaccine i'll coronavirus you don't know
what percent is gonna wind up getting it
nobody does and the experts don't know
either
well that's not true
but yeah let's say it is true that the
overwhelming number of people who get it
don't die yeah okay yeah that's fine
unless you're the person who dies then
it's not so fine
yeah
the the nursing homes have seen in many
ways the most intense issue here and
when you think about where this even
started it started in a nursing home in
Washington of Washington the vulnerable
population our senior citizens people
with comorbidities compromised immune
systems and a nursing home is a
aggregation of those people and that's
how it started and that is where it is
most dangerous in the nursing homes I
understand that I understand the nursing
home staff has been doing doing the
people staff these nursing homes have
been doing a fantastic job because it
really is very difficult and we had to
put some precautions in place that are
just so harsh I mean we can't have we
said no visitors to a nursing home
during this entire time I mean just
think how harsh that is right but all it
takes is one person to walk into that
nursing home with a virus and then
you're off to the races so we're doing
everything we can the nursing homes are
working very hard we also announced an
investigation with the Attorney General
and the Department of Health to make
sure the nursing homes are doing what
they need to do many of them are
privately run but this state can
regulate them they have to notify
families etc so we're doing an
investigation on that but remember the
basic premise of the nursing home the
nursing home can only accept or keep a
patient if if they can provide adequate
care for that patient if they have a
kovat patient or non kovat patient but
they can't provide adequate care for
that person it is their obligation to
transfer the person if they can't find
the place to transfer the person it's
their obligation to call the State
Department of Health and the State
Department of
will transfer the person we have
facilities for Co vyd nursing home
residents we have some facilities that
are just Fork Ovid positive nursing home
residents so we have those facilities
available if a nursing home can't care
for a co vyd resident called the
Department of Health the Department of
Health will transfer the patient period
and that responsibility is on the
nursing home they have to know who they
can care for and who they can't care for
if they can't care for them for any
reason my staff is out sick I don't have
the PPE
I can't quarantine I can't isolate for
whatever reason they have an obligation
to call the State Department of Health
and say I have to transfer this person
and we have existing facilities and beds
for them but the nursing home has to
make that determination and if they are
caring for people or they have people
who they're not suited to care for then
they're violating the state policy and
that's part of what this investigation
is going to look at so I've said the
nursing homes before I say it again if
you cannot provide adequate care then
that person has no business being in
your nursing home and we do have
facilities and we do have beds that can
care for nursing home residents and do
it well and do it safely last point I'd
like to make the today we're talking
about what local government officials
have to do what each region has to do to
be ready May 15th is a possible
reopening if you're ready this is how
you're ready learning from the lessons
on the science on the facts but this is
a situation where yes government is
first and foremost in a position where
they have to make decisions and perform
and do it well and competence matters
and professionalism matter
and will hold government officials
accountable I want to be held
accountable hold government officials
accountable but we also need local
officials we need our hospital
administrators to be a big part of this
and we need every citizen to be part of
this you know who's going to keep you
safe
you are you are not me
you are by your actions you know it's
gonna keep your family safe your family
and you are by being responsible and
reasonable in this situation and then
you know how we keep each other safe by
our individual responsibility and
respect by wearing the mask by
maintaining the social distancing that's
how we get through this every body has a
role to play here there is no pointing
fingers nobody's been here before it's
no one else's job it's all of us
together and that's what has worked so
well so far we just have to stay at it
it's been an honor to be with you thank
you very much
[Music]